Standard Library
================

The Cosmos-SDK comes bundled with a number of standard modules that
provide common functionality useful across a wide variety of
applications. See examples below. It is recommended to investigate if
desired functionality is already provided before developing new modules.

Basic Middleware
----------------

Logging
~~~~~~~

``modules.base.Logger`` is a middleware that records basic info on
``CheckTx``, ``DeliverTx``, and ``SetOption``, along with timing in
microseconds. It can be installed standard at the top of all middleware
stacks, or replaced with your own middleware if you want to record
custom information with each request.

Recovery
~~~~~~~~

To avoid accidental panics (e.g. bad go-wire decoding) killing the ABCI
app, wrap the stack with ``stack.Recovery``, which catches all panics
and returns them as errors, so they can be handled normally.

Signatures
~~~~~~~~~~

The first layer of the transaction contains the signatures to authorize
it. This is then verified by ``modules.auth.Signatures``. All
transactions may have one or multiple signatures which are then
processed and verified by this middleware and then passed down the
stack.

Chain
~~~~~

The next layer of a transaction (in the standard stack) binds the
transaction to a specific chain with a block height that has an optional
expiration. This keeps the transactions from being replayed on a fork or
other such chain, as well as a partially signed multi-sig being delayed
months before being committed to the chain. This functionality is
provided in ``modules.base.Chain``

Nonce
~~~~~

To avoid replay attacks, a nonce can be associated with each actor. A
separate nonce is used for each distinct group signers required for a
transaction as well as for each separate application and chain-id. This
creates replay protection cross-IBC and cross-plugins and also allows
signing parties to not be bound to waiting for a particular transaction
to be completed before being able to sign a separate transaction.

Rather than force each module to implement its own replay protection, a
transaction stack may contain a nonce wrap and the account it belongs
to. The nonce must contain a signed sequence number which is incremented
one higher than the last request or the request is rejected. This is
implemented in ``modules.nonce.ReplayCheck``.

If you're interested checkout this `design
discussion <https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/160>`__.

Fees
~~~~

An optional - but useful - feature on many chains, is charging
transaction fees. A simple implementation of this is provided in
``modules.fee.SimpleFeeMiddleware``. A fee currency and minimum amount
are defined in the constructor (eg. in code). If the minimum amount is
0, then the fee is optional. If it is above 0, then every transaction
with insufficient fee is rejected. This fee is deducted from the payers
account before executing any other transaction.

This module is dependent on the ``coin`` module.

Other Apps
----------

Coin
~~~~

What would a crypto-currency be without tokens? The ``SendTx`` logic
from earlier implementations of basecoin was extracted into one module,
which is now optional, meaning most of the other functionality will also
work in a system with no built-in tokens, such as a private network that
provides other access control mechanisms.

``modules.coin.Handler`` defines a Handler that maintains a number of
accounts along with a set of various tokens, supporting multiple token
denominations. The main access is ``SendTx``, which can support any type
of actor (other apps as well as public key addresses) and is a building
block for any other app that requires some payment solution, like fees
or trader.

Roles
~~~~~

Roles encapsulate what are typically called N-of-M multi-signatures
accounts in the crypto world. However, I view this as a type of role or
group, which can be the basis for building a permission system. For
example, a set of people could be called registrars, which can authorize
a new IBC chain, and need eg. 2 out of 7 signatures to approve it.

Currently, one can create a role with ``modules.roles.Handler``, and
assume one of those roles by wrapping another transaction with
``AssumeRoleTx``, which is processed by ``modules.roles.Middleware``.
Updating the set of actors in a role is planned in the near future.

Inter-Blockchain Communication (IBC)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

IBC, is the cornerstone of The Cosmos Network, and is built into the
Cosmos-SDK framework as a basic primitive. To fully grasp these concepts
requires a much longer explanation, but in short, the chain works as a
light-client to another chain and maintains input and output queue to
send packets with that chain. This mechanism allows blockchains to prove
the state of their respective blockchains to each other ultimately
invoke inter-blockchain transactions.

Most functionality is implemented in ``modules.ibc.Handler``.
Registering a chain is a seed of trust that requires verification of the
proper seed (or genesis block), and this generally requires approval of
an authorized registrar (which may be a multi-sig role). Updating a
registered chain can be done by anyone, as the new header can be
completely verified by the existing knowledge of the chain. Also,
modules can initiate an outgoing IBC message to another chain by calling
``CreatePacketTx`` over IPC (inter-plugin communication) with a
transaction that belongs to their module. (This must be explicitly
authorized by the same module, so only the eg. coin module can authorize
a ``SendTx`` to another chain).

``PostPacketTx`` can post a transaction that was created on another
chain along with the merkle proof, which must match an already
registered header. If this chain can verify the authenticity, it will
accept the packet, along with all the permissions from the other chain,
and execute it on this stack. This is the only way to get permissions
that belong to another chain.

These various pieces can be combined in a relay, which polls for new
packets on one chain, and then posts the packets along with the new
headers on the other chain.

Example Apps
------------

See the `Cosmos Academy <https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-academy>`__
for example applications.
